Breakpoints allow you to visualize the runtime.
They are important for debugging and we use breakpoints of very extensively in the Java bootcamp and
you can rest assured we're going to use them again in the spring boot course.
If you're not familiar with breakpoints yet, please visit the helpful resources inside of Appendix
A and watch the breakpoints lesson that corresponds to your editor.
First thing I'll do is I will add a breakpoint right over here and then run my application in debug
mode.
All right.
If I scroll up, I can see that the HTTP server is running on Port 8080.
So back here, the client can make a get request to local host 8080 slash.
Hello.
The Handler method intercepts the get request.
You can see that it reaches the breakpoint and it's going to respond with a view called some HTML view.
If we continue the runtime.
We get an error.
It says the template might not exist or might not be accessible.
So the HTML template that our handler method is trying to return doesn't exist.
So Spring Boot actually just sends back an exception.
Now, there's one thing I want to point out is that when you're doing your challenges or your workbooks,
you're going to come across error messages like this.
My biggest advice is to ignore all the noise.
Look for the meaningful message that describes what your issue is.
In this case, the error was that it could not resolve the template some HTML view.
Don't be discouraged by all of these logs.
Just make sure to look at what's meaningful.
This is really important for debugging and as far as this breakpoint session goes, that's really it.
It was only to show you how to visualize the runtime of a spring boot app using VS code and the breakpoint
sessions in the future will rest assured be more meaningful.